# Surveillance-of-West-Nile-Virus-Infections

This data set was obtained from the [European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC)](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/west-nile-fever/surveillance-and-disease-data/disease-data-ecdc). It tracks all reported human West Nile virus infections across Europe from February 2024 to October 2024, and details the reported date, country, region, and NUTS3 geocode standard for where each infection originated. Pandas (Python) was used for data cleaning and preliminary EDA.

Though the ECDC’s report includes the timing and geographic distribution of these case reports, it does not feature population-adjusted metrics that would more accurately convey the burden of this disease by region. To add further insight into the ECDC’s epidemiological report, I downloaded country/regional population estimates from the [European Union's Eurostats resource](https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/explore/all/popul?lang=en&subtheme=demo&display=list&sort=category) and linked these to the West Nile data set using the NUTS3 geocode as the key. Prior to linkage, geocoding for Albania and Serbia listings had to be corrected in the ECDC data set, as their original entries did not correspond to recognized NUTS3 codes and could not be interpreted by Tableau’s geo mapping function.

After joining the country/regional population data sets to the West Nile infection data set in Tableau, I coded several calculated fields to quantify infection rates. I then developed a choropleth map, tables, and bar & line graphs to more clearly depict the burden of infection after adjusting for population size. I determined that the highest rates of West Nile virus infection for 2024 were in southern Europe, particularly in Greece and Albania.

My Tableau Dashboard that further unpacks the disease surveillance data can be viewed [here](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/zach.tanner/viz/SurveillanceofWestNileVirusInfectionsAcrossEuropein2024/Dashboard).
